
2002/07/22

The New Aspell is complete enough to function as a replacement for
both the old Aspell/Pspell replacement with a few exceptions.
However, the New Aspell is still in a pre-alpha state and has not been
tested that well at all.  So, only use it if you plan to help in some
way with the testing or development of the new Aspell.

The functionally of the old Aspell utility is now broken up into to
utilities.  "aspell" and "speller-util".  The "aspell" program handles
the checking of documents while "speller-util" handles the management
of dictionaries.

If different prefixes are specified for the New Aspell and the old
Aspell/Pspell the two should be able to peacefully coexist.  However,
the two both use ASPELL_CONF and the .aspell.conf file for reading
configuration information which may give you some problems as some of
the options have changed.  The two also share the same personal
word-lists, however, since the format of them has not changed, this
should not be a problem.

The main features missing from the old Aspell/Pspell is an HTML and
TeX filter.  Those should be ported over shortly.

See README-CVS if building from CVS.

To build and install:

  ./configure --disable-static <options>
  make
  make install

You will then need to install a dictionary package for the new aspell.
You can find them at http://aspell.net.  The "speller-util" program
must be in your path in order for the dictionaries to install
correctly.

LIBRARY NOTES:

The name of everything has changed due to the renaming of Pspell to
Aspell however you should also be able to build applications that
require Pspell with the new aspell as a backwards compatibility header
file is provided.  No real documentation currently exists for the new
interface so for now refer to the Pspell docs keeping in mind the
following changes in the name of things:

  pspell -> aspell
  manager -> speller
  emulation -> enumeration
  master_word_list -> main_word_list

You can also see example-c.c and list-dicts.c in the example directory
for example of using the new interface.

The only header file which needs to be included for using the new
Aspell through the C interface is "aspell.h".  This header file also
contains some documentation on what the various functions do.

Using static libraries will NOT work due to the mixing of C and C++.

